Community Docs (#2069)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/community/contributing/contributing-online-community.md

---
title: "Online community building"
id: "contributing-online-community"
---

### Maintaining a channel in the dbt Community Slack

#### Overview

> The dbt Slack is the place for real time conversations with the dbt Community. Slack channels exist to for specific locations, tools, industries and methodologies. In order to make sure that every channel has dedicated attention from a committed community member, we have Community Maintainers who oversee the discussion in particular channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dbt Slack is the place for real time conversations with the dbt Community. Slack channels exist for specific locations, tools, industries and methodologies. In order to make sure that every channel has dedicated attention from a committed community member, we have Community Maintainers who oversee the discussion in particular channels.
```

#### Contribution opportunities

> We’re working on compiling a list of existing channels that could benefit from additional community maintainers. In the meantime, feel free to be on the lookout for opportunities to help maintain new channels that are getting spun up by keeping an eye on #channel-requests in the dbt slack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every channel can benefit from people who are engaged and committed to making it a more interesting place to hang out! If there's a channel that you're interested in, spend time there.

For new channels that you'd like to create and maintain, post a message in the #channel-requests channel.
```

#### Sample contributions:

- Karen Hsieh's [contributions](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C02TU2DSKND/p1661483529756289) to the #local-taipei channel are a fantastic example to learn from.

#### Get started

> - Read the guide to [Maintaining a Slack Channel](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/maintaining-a-channel)

Reviewer: @gwenwindflower can we double check the redirect on this for the new url under resources?

> - Read the guide to [Maintaining a Slack Channel](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/maintaining-a-channel)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read the guide to [Maintaining a Slack Channel](community/resources/maintaining-a-channel)
```

> - Read the guide to [Maintaining a Slack Channel](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/maintaining-a-channel)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read the guide to [Maintaining a Slack Channel](/community/resources/maintaining-a-channel)
```

> - Jump in to threads in #channel-requests for new channels and offer to help maintain or mention that you are interested in helping maintain a channel and we’ll reach out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Participating on the Community Forum

#### Overview

[The dbt Community Forum](https://discourse.getdbt.com) is the preferred platform for support questions as well as a space for long-lived discussions about dbt, analytics engineering, and the analytics profession. It's a place for us to build up a long-lasting knowledge base around the common challenges, opportunities, and patterns we work with every day.

#### Contribution opportunities

> Participate in the Forum by asking and answering questions. These discussions are what allows us to find gaps in our best practices, documentation and other recommendation, as well as to get folks onboarded and understanding dbt. It’s a mitzvah to answer a question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Participate in the Forum by asking and answering questions. These discussions are what allows us to find gaps in our best practices, documentation and other recommendation, as well as to get folks onboarded and understanding dbt. Remember, it’s a mitzvah to answer a question.
```

#### What is it

The dbt Slack is the place for real time conversations with the dbt Community. Slack channels exist to for specific locations, tools, industries and methodologies. In order to make sure that every channel has dedicated attention from a committed community member, we have Community Maintainers who oversee the discussion in particular channels.

#### Contribution opportunities
  
We’re working on compiling a list of existing channels that could benefit from additional community maintainers. In the meantime, feel free to be on the lookout for opportunities to help maintain new channels that are getting spun up by keeping an eye on #channel-requests in the dbt slack.

#### Sample contributions

- Karen Hsieh's [contributions](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C02TU2DSKND/p1661483529756289) to the #local-taipei channel are a fantastic example to learn from.

#### How to get started

- Read the guide to [Maintaining a Slack Channel](https://docs.getdbt.com/community/maintaining-a-channel)
- Jump in to threads in #channel-requests for new channels and offer to help maintain or mention that you are interested in helping maintain a channel and we’ll reach out.

> ### Participating on Discourse

Reviewer: ``` SUGGESTION
### Participating on the Community Forum

#### What is it

> [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/discussions) are the dbt community’s platform for long-lived discussions about dbt, analytics engineering, and analytics. They’re a place for us to build up a long-lasting knowledge base around the common challenges, opportunities, and patterns we work with every day.

Reviewer: ``` SUGGESTION
[The dbt Community Forum](https://docs.getdbt.com/forum) is the dbt community’s platform for q&a and long-lived discussions about dbt, analytics engineering, and analytics. They’re a place for us to build up a long-lasting knowledge base around the common challenges, opportunities, and patterns we work with every day.

#### How is Discourse different from other community platforms?

> - Compared to threads in the dbt Community Slack, GitHub Discussions are more asynchronous, long lived and intentional. Conversations on Slack are great for quick back and forths, but are hard to reference over time and not as good at building long-lasting community knowledge.

Reviewer: ```SUGGESTION
- Compared to threads in the dbt Community Slack, Discourse is more asynchronous, long lived and intentional. Conversations on Slack are great for quick back and forths, but are hard to reference over time and not as good at building long-lasting community knowledge.

> - Compared to drafting a blog post for the Developer Blog, GitHub Discussions have a faster iteration loop, require no direct intervention from the dbt Labs team and are more focused around interacting with others’ views on a given topic or question. A good Discussion can be focused around asking a question you’d like feedback on or it can be sharing an idea that you’re not quite ready to turn into a fully fledged blog post.

Reviewer: ```SUGGESTION
- Compared to drafting a blog post for the Developer Blog, the Community Forum has a faster iteration loop, require no direct intervention from the dbt Labs team and are more focused around interacting with others’ views on a given topic or question. A good Discussion can be focused around asking a question you’d like feedback on or it can be sharing an idea that you’re not quite ready to turn into a fully fledged blog post.

Asking and answering questions. It is tremendously valuable to help answer community questions around dbt, data modeling or analytics in general. These discussions are what allows us to find gaps in our best practices, documentation and other recommendation, as well as to get folks onboarded and understanding dbt. Remember - it’s a mitzvah to answer a question.

#### Sample contributions

- This post on how one analytics engineer uses snapshots to test that the aggregated metrics at the end of their DAG don't shift (who here hasn't had the revenue from last June change in September of this year somehow) [is an excellent example of how to write a great Discourse post.](https://discourse.getdbt.com/t/build-snapshot-based-tests-to-detect-regressions-in-historic-data/1478)
- Here's [an example of the supportive, thorough Q&A](https://discourse.getdbt.com/t/is-it-possible-to-have-multiple-files-with-the-same-name-in-dbt/647) of the Discourse community when you take the time to ask a question well.

#### How to get started

- Read [Long-Lived Discussions](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/contributing/long-lived-discussions-guidelines) and why they are important to the dbt Community

> - Head over to the “[I Need Help With](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/discussions/categories/i-need-help-with)” section of the GitHub discussions board and look for areas to hop in! Remember - you don’t need to know the exact answer to a question to be able to provide helpful context.

Reviewer: ```SUGGESTION
- Head over to the [Community Forum ](https://docs.getdbt.com/forum) and look for areas to hop in! Remember - you don’t need to know the exact answer to a question to be able to provide helpful context.
